Previously, we discussed how firewalls,
VPNs, and
security zones help to secure networks.
Next, we'll cover how to secure
internal networks with proxy servers.
Proxy servers are another system
that helps secure networks.
The definition of a proxy server is
a server that fulfills the request of
a client by forwarding
them on to other servers.
The proxy server is a dedicated server
that sits between the internet and
the rest of the network.
When a request to connect to
the network comes in from the internet,
the proxy server will determine if
the connection request is safe.
The proxy server is a public IP address
that is different from the rest
of the private network.
This hides the private network's IP address
from malicious actors on the internet and
adds a layer of security.
Let's examine how this
will work with an example.
When a client receives an HTTPS response,
they will notice a distorted IP address or
no IP address rather than the real IP
address of the organization's web server.
A proxy server can also be used to block
unsafe websites that users aren't allowed
to access on an organization's network.
A proxy server uses temporary
memory to store data that's
regularly requested by external servers.
This way, it doesn't have to fetch
data from an organization's internal
servers every time.
This enhances security by reducing
contact with the internal server.
There are different types of proxy
servers that support network security.
This is important for
security analysts who monitor
traffic from various proxy servers and
may need to know what purpose they serve.
Let's explore some different
types of proxy servers.
A forward proxy server regulates and
restricts a person with
access to the internet.
The goal is to hide a user's IP address
and approve all outgoing requests.
In the context of an organization,
a forward proxy server receives outgoing
traffic from an employee, approves it, and
then forwards it on to
the destination on the internet.
A reverse proxy server regulates and
restricts the internet access
to an internal server.
The goal is to accept traffic from
external parties, approve it, and
forward it to the internal servers.
This setup is useful for
protecting internal web servers containing
confidential data from exposing their
IP address to external parties.
An email proxy server is
another valuable security tool.
It filters spam email by verifying
whether a sender's address was forged.
This reduces the risk of phishing
attacks that impersonate people known to
the organization.
Let's talk about a real world
example of an email proxy.
Several years ago when I was working
at a large U.S. broadband ISP,
we used a proxy server to implement
multiple layers of anti-spam filtering
before a message was allowed in for
delivery.
It ended up tagging around
95% of messages as spam.
The proxy servers would've
allowed us to filter and
then scale those filters without
impacting the underlying email platform.
Proxy servers play an important part in
network security by filtering incoming and
outgoing traffic and
staying alert to network attacks.
These devices add a layer of protection
from the unsecured public network that we call
the internet.